---
layout: post
title: translations [第15天]
date: 2014-06-04 8:36:23
disqus: y
---

The term "internationalization" (often abbreviated i18n) refers to the process of abstracting strings and other locale-specific pieces out of your application into a layer where they can be translated and converted based on the user's locale (i.e. language and country). For text, this means wrapping each with a function capable of translating the text (or "message") into the language of the user:

{% highlight PHP %}
// text will *always* print out in English
echo 'Hello World';

// text can be translated into the end-user's language or
// default to English
echo $translator->trans('Hello World');
{% endhighlight %}

Tips:

The term locale refers roughly to the user's language and country. It can be any string that your application uses to manage translations and other format differences (e.g. currency format). The ISO 639-1 language code, an underscore (_), then the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code (e.g. fr_FR for French/France) is recommended.

In this chapter, you'll learn how to use the Translation component in the Symfony2 framework. You can read the Translation component documentation to learn even more. Overall, the process has several steps:

Enable and configure Symfony's translation service;

Abstract strings (i.e. "messages") by wrapping them in calls to the Translator ("Basic Translation");

Create translation resources/files for each supported locale that translate each message in the application;

Determine, set and manage the user's locale for the request and optionally on the user's entire session.

Configuration¶

Translations are handled by a translator service that uses the user's locale to lookup and return translated messages. Before using it, enable the translator in your configuration:

YAML:

{% highlight PHP %}
# app/config/config.yml
framework:
    translator: { fallback: en }
{% endhighlight %}

See Fallback Translation Locales for details on the fallback key and what Symfony does when it doesn't find a translation.

The locale used in translations is the one stored on the request. This is typically set via a _locale attribute on your routes (see The Locale and the URL).

Basic Translation¶

Translation of text is done through the translator service (Translator). To translate a block of text (called a message), use the trans() method. Suppose, for example, that you're translating a simple message from inside a controller:

{% highlight PHP %}
// ...
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;

public function indexAction()
{
    $translated = $this->get('translator')->trans('Symfony2 is great');

    return new Response($translated);
}
{% endhighlight %}

When this code is executed, Symfony2 will attempt to translate the message "Symfony2 is great" based on the locale of the user. For this to work, you need to tell Symfony2 how to translate the message via a "translation resource", which is usually a file that contains a collection of translations for a given locale. This "dictionary" of translations can be created in several different formats, XLIFF being the recommended format:

{% highlight PHP %}
<!-- messages.fr.xliff -->
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<xliff version="1.2" xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2">
    <file source-language="en" datatype="plaintext" original="file.ext">
        <body>
            <trans-unit id="1">
                <source>Symfony2 is great</source>
                <target>J'aime Symfony2</target>
            </trans-unit>
        </body>
    </file>
</xliff>
{% highlight %}

For information on where these files should be located, see Translation Resource/File Names and Locations.

Now, if the language of the user's locale is French (e.g. fr_FR or fr_BE), the message will be translated into J'aime Symfony2. You can also translate the message inside your templates.

The Translation Process¶

To actually translate the message, Symfony2 uses a simple process:

The locale of the current user, which is stored on the request is determined;

A catalog (e.g. big collection) of translated messages is loaded from translation resources defined for the locale (e.g. fr_FR). Messages from the fallback locale are also loaded and added to the catalog if they don't already exist. The end result is a large "dictionary" of translations.

If the message is located in the catalog, the translation is returned. If not, the translator returns the original message.

When using the trans() method, Symfony2 looks for the exact string inside the appropriate message catalog and returns it (if it exists).

Message Placeholders¶

Sometimes, a message containing a variable needs to be translated:

{% highlight PHP %}
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;

public function indexAction($name)
{
    $translated = $this->get('translator')->trans('Hello '.$name);

    return new Response($translated);
}
{% endhighlight %}

However, creating a translation for this string is impossible since the translator will try to look up the exact message, including the variable portions (e.g. "Hello Ryan" or "Hello Fabien").

For details on how to handle this situation, see Message Placeholders in the components documentation. For how to do this in templates, see Twig Templates.

