---
layout: post
title: translations [第16天]
date: 2014-06-05 8:36:23
disqus: y
---
A modern PHP application is full of objects. One object may facilitate the delivery of email messages while another may allow you to persist information into a database. In your application, you may create an object that manages your product inventory, or another object that processes data from a third-party API. The point is that a modern application does many things and is organized into many objects that handle each task.
This chapter is about a special PHP object in Symfony2 that helps you instantiate, organize and retrieve the many objects of your application. This object, called a service container, will allow you to standardize and centralize the way objects are constructed in your application. The container makes your life easier, is super fast, and emphasizes an architecture that promotes reusable and decoupled code. Since all core Symfony2 classes use the container, you'll learn how to extend, configure and use any object in Symfony2. In large part, the service container is the biggest contributor to the speed and extensibility of Symfony2.
Finally, configuring and using the service container is easy. By the end of this chapter, you'll be comfortable creating your own objects via the container and customizing objects from any third-party bundle. You'll begin writing code that is more reusable, testable and decoupled, simply because the service container makes writing good code so easy.